---
layout: post
type: post
title: "Working with SSH"
date: 2020-10-15
categories: technotes
comments: true
author: "Hailey Do"
tags: [machine learning, deep learning, python, ai, ssh]
header-img: /assets/png/how-to-debug/Blog-TitleCard.png
description: |
    In this blog, I share useful practices I used when working with remote servers over SSH
excerpt: |
    
---


## Display images in terminal over SSH
I usually work on a remote server for machine learning projects (especially those are related to computer visions) that require powerful computers with GPU/CUDA enabled. A lot of time, I need to visualize an image without moving away from the working terminal. To do that, when you connect to the remote server from a local machine using SSH, add -Y in the ssh command (Replace remote_user and remote_server with the real user and remote server address)
     ssh -Y remote_user@remote_server

In the terminal on the remote server, to display image X.jpg, use the eog command as follow
    eog path/to/image/X.jpg

## Run Jupyter notebook over SSH
In the terminal of the remote server, run Jupyter notebook from the remote server with port XXXX. The option --no-browser to run jupyter without opening the browser:
    jupyter --no-browser --port=XXXX

After that, in the terminal of the local machine (computer), run the following command to forward port XXXX from the remote server to port YYY on the local machine:
    ssh -N -f -L localhost:YYYY:localhost:XXXX remote_user@remote_server
    
-N: suppresses the execution of a remote command. Pretty much used in port forwarding.
-f: this requests the ssh command to go to background before execution.
-L: this argument requires an input in the form of local_socket:remote_socket. Here, we’re specifying our port as YYYY which will be binded to the port XXXX from your remote connection.

Finally open Jupyter notebook from a browser on the local machine by typing the following address on the browser address bar.
    localhost:YYYY








